This data comes from data.gov which is the official location of all open datasets published by the federal government. I was curious about the development of DC, and this collection is very informative with how comprehensively it accounts for each building in the District. According to data.gov, Brian Kraft collected this data primarily as a part of his broader interest in mapping DC according to his website. Additional credit is given to JMT Inc. and the DC Historic Preservation Office in the dataset’s description. The stated goal is to provide information to researchers, particularly those interested studying DC through ArcGIS. 

Each row represents a building permit issued in DC. As far as I can tell the database is pruned to not include demolished buildings or lots that have since been merged, split, etc. Key columns include “FULLADDRESS” which shockingly lists the current address the building resides. This is crucial given DC’s tendency to change road names willy nilly. “MapYear” lists the first historical map in which the building permit was mapped, giving us a general idea (within 5-10) years of when the building was completed. I am also keenly interested in the prospect of carrying lots sizes since DC has several neighborhoods which can be uniquely identified for their wildly different dimensions. 

The dataset draws mainly from permits issued by the city from 1877-1949. This means that Kraft used other sources to fill in the gaps in DC history from before and after that period. While records from post-1949 are probably plentiful (although post the Home Rule Act records can often be scattered across federal and local sources), the pre-1877 period may be foggy. Additionally, examining DC’s history through building permits will inevitably highlight those with the means to buy land, architects, developers, and local officials. People who don’t fit those profiles may be figures worthy of study but will not through this dataset. Additionally, I fear some interesting structures (forts, local monuments, trails, etc.) are unaccounted for in this dataset. 
